**Executive Summary**

This report covers the project management review and analysis of the Web
to Print Weltec IT7351Project completed by Chesda Reth, Hema Pasupuleti
and Helen James during Semester 2, 2013.

The aim of this project was to find a suitable Web to Print service for
Copy Express Limited, Petone. Copy Express is a small to medium sized
print business dealing with various printing needs including Business
cards, Flyers, Banners, Brochures and specialised one off print
products. There are large number of companies that provide Web to Print
software in the form of either a cloud based SaaS(**S**oftware **a**s
**a** Solution) prescribed service or a package to be deployed on your
own servers (Licence based).

The key focus of this project was to analyse and assess the current Copy
Express system status (functional and technical), asses their future
requirement based on their desired business growth and market strategy
and propose a feasible solution.

We a team of three WelTec students utilised our skills, knowledge and
experience gained by our study and life experiences to set about
utilising various tools, techniques and applying a methodology. A large
amount of our time was spent on researching the internet, communicating
with solution providers, having online demos and assessing each and
every solution to the clientâ€™s requirements. Since we had selected to
apply the RUP methodology and use case based testing procedure, the
project was divided into relevant phases. Each phase resulted in fine
tuning of our research by eliminating potential solutions that did not
meet the analysed requirements. We documented all the findings,
strengths, weakness of both Discarded & Continued solutions as well as
our experiences throughout the process.

By the time the project progressed to the final Transition phase we had
successfully found and recommend a solution which fulfils majority of
the requirements, and had worked towards minimising the impact of the
requirements that were not met. The recommended solution was thoroughly
tested and reported on and the team also had developed a CSV macro to
integrate the recommended Solution (OnPrintShop) to the Xero accounting
system; that the client can later adapt if he chooses to.

The project process has allowed the team members to apply their
knowledge to a real world situation. Each member has a better
understanding of a business seeking growth by the use of technology and
of the importance of good requirements gathering, accurate and thorough
testing and sticking to a well prepared project schedule.

The team displayed professionalism, support, dedication, commitment and
co-operation throughout the progress of this project within the team as
well in all our external dealings and interactions to make this project
a success.
