| IT7351 Project                             |
| ------------------------------------------ |
| Web to Print                               |
| Closeout Report                            |
|                                            |
| Hema Pasupuleti, Helen James, Chesda Reth, |
| **22 October 2103**                        |

|  |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| *Acknowledgements: The team would like to acknowledge the participation and assistance given by the client, Peter McCarroll of Copy Express Ltd, the Project Advisor, Steve McKinlay and the project Auditor, Robert Sutcliffe.* |

# Contents

[Executive Summary 2](#executive-summary)

[Introduction 3](#introduction)

[Project Summary 3](#project-summary)

[Inception Phase (4 July – 31 July) 3](#inception-phase-4-july-31-july)

[Elaboration Phase 1<sup>st</sup> Iteration (1 August – 20 August)
5](#elaboration-phase-1st-iteration-1-august-20-august)

[Elaboration Phase 2<sup>nd</sup> Iteration (21 August – 30 August)
7](#elaboration-phase-2nd-iteration-21-august-30-august)

[Elaboration Phase 3<sup>rd</sup> Iteration (31 August to 10 September)
8](#elaboration-phase-3rd-iteration-31-august-to-10-september)

[Elaboration 4<sup>th</sup> Iteration (11 September – 8 October)
9](#elaboration-4th-iteration-11-september-8-october)

[Transition Phase (9 October – 22 October)
11](#transition-phase-9-october-22-october)

[Statistical analysis of hours worked
12](#statistical-analysis-of-hours-worked)

[Milestone Summary 13](#milestone-summary)

[Change Control Summary 14](#change-control-summary)

[Summary of successes 15](#summary-of-successes)

[Summary of failures 15](#summary-of-failures)

[Summary of Lessons learned 16](#summary-of-lessons-learned)

[Conclusion 16](#conclusion)

[Reference List 17](#_Toc370218938)

# Executive Summary

This report covers the project management review and analysis of the Web
to Print Weltec IT7351Project completed by Chesda Reth, Hema Pasupuleti
and Helen James during Semester 2, 2013.

The aim of this project was to find a suitable Web to Print service for
Copy Express Limited, Petone. Copy Express is a small to medium sized
print business dealing with various printing needs including Business
cards, Flyers, Banners, Brochures and specialised one off print
products. There are a large number of companies that provide Web to
Print software in the form of either a cloud based SaaS (**S**oftware
**a**s **a** Solution) prescribed service or a package to be deployed on
your own servers (Licence based).

The key focus of this project was to analyse and assess the current Copy
Express system status (functional and technical), asses their future
requirement based on their desired business growth and market strategy
and propose a feasible solution.

We a team of three WelTec students utilised our skills, knowledge and
experience gained by our study and life experiences to set about
utilising various tools, techniques and applying a methodology. A large
amount of our time was spent on researching the internet, communicating
with solution providers, having online demos and assessing each and
every solution to the client’s requirements. Since we had selected to
apply the RUP methodology and use case based testing procedure, the
project was divided into relevant phases. Each phase resulted in fine
tuning of our research by eliminating potential solutions that did not
meet the analysed requirements. We documented all the findings,
strengths, weaknesses of both Discarded & Continued solutions as well as
our experiences throughout the process.

By the time the project progressed to the final Transition phase we had
successfully found and recommended a solution which fulfils the majority
of the requirements and had worked towards minimising the impact of the
requirements that were not met. The recommended solution had been
thoroughly tested and reported on and the team also had developed a CSV
macro to integrate the recommended Solution (OnPrintShop) to the Xero
accounting system; that the client can later adapt if he chooses to.

The project process has allowed the team members to apply their
knowledge to a real world situation. Each member has a better
understanding of a business seeking growth by the use of technology and
of the importance of good requirements gathering, accurate and thorough
testing and sticking to a well prepared project schedule.

The team displayed professionalism, support, dedication, commitment and
co-operation throughout the term of this project; this applied within
the team itself as well in all our external dealings and interactions
contributing to the project success.

# Introduction

The Web to Print project was initiated to meet a combination of needs.
The team (Helen James, Hema Pasupuleti and Chesda Reth) had a need to
engage in a project as a requirement for the Bachelor in Information
Technology study we were participating in. WelTec had a need to provide
the BIT students with a project to fulfil the IT7351 curriculum and
Peter McCarroll of Copy Express Limited needed research towards finding,
and perhaps installation, of a suitable and affordable Web to Print
solution to expand the services his business provides and gain market
share.

Web to Print is an online cloud hosted service that provides the print
industry with the opportunity to automate their print ordering process
and improve their workflow as well as customer base. This project was
focused on research investigation to find a suitable solution for Copy
Express Limited, a small - medium sized print business located in
Petone, Lower Hutt.

On initiation of the team and during the WelTec bidding process it was
agreed that Helen would be the contact person for Copy Express Ltd and
the project manager, all the team members were comfortable with this
decision.

In this report we talk about how we, as a team, worked through various
phases of the project life cycle from inception to recommending a final
solution and project closeout.

# Project Summary

## Inception Phase (4 July – 31 July)

The team met with the Client during the term break as Peter McCarroll
had indicated that he was going overseas on a Business trip. We didn’t
have much time to prepare, but at least managed to look at the Copy
Express Website (Copy Express Ltd, 2012 - 2013 ) and work out what
services they supplied. We felt very green and were not sure what to
expect; luckily the client (Peter McCarroll) had given the project quite
a bit of thought and he had quite a list of requirements. We asked lots
of questions and got a lot of clarification, it was a good start. The
minutes we produced from this meeting became the basis for our
requirements analysis and were able to be used as such in our Proposal,
it was worth the effort. We came away feeling inspired, but being the
first week of the semester break that inspiration was soon diminished.

It felt good to have a head start, but it gave us a false sense of
security when we got to week one\! We felt we had “got going” early so
didn’t need to put in the hours, we could build up to it like we usually
do at the start of a trimester, plus we felt we hadn’t really had much
of a break, little did we know what we were in for during the weeks
ahead; our few hours’ work in the holidays would seem like a month’s
vacation in comparison\!

We confidently agreed that we would meet on Monday’s at 9am and Fridays
after the Project tutorials, it was only a matter of weeks before this
changed to 12 noon on Tuesdays and Thursdays after our Software Testing
lectures and tutorials, we soon learnt that having full days at home to
do some solid work was more effective than unnecessarily travelling in
for a team meeting. We also felt we didn’t need a team contract as we
were all dedicated students that wanted to do well, this was a mistake,
there were times that later arose that we could have used this as a
leverage, and in fact we did later type one, but never signed it or
enforced it so it was basically ineffective.

We set up our Dropbox (Your stuff, anywhere, 2013)and loaded our
timesheets and any work. Right from the start we communicated by email
and text, we worked at home for convenience sake as well as for the need
of good internet access which WelTec does not provide. As three
individuals that were used to working alone, this suited us\! It soon
became very apparent that we all liked to work at different times of the
day based on our individual circumstances and personal preferences.
Modern technology and file sharing made this all possible, although the
motivation factor was more difficult to control as this type of work
routine relies on the team members being disciplined and self-motivated.
Right from the start, work that was promised to be done by the next
meeting was often not completed and occasionally not even started; we
should have tried harder to address this and to deal this situation
professionally, but we opted for the friendly approach. We soon learned
that some people need the pressure of a deadline to motivate them into
work, while others are more comfortable to chip away at it, once we
established how each of us liked to work we felt more comfortable with
the team dynamics.

We decided on the Rational Unified Process methodology, we felt that it
would work well with this project and that its adaptive nature would
allow us to make any changes required. We also thought that Use Case
Scenarios were a good approach for testing potential Software as a
Solution (SaaS) cloud based solutions. We had downloaded a RUP guide (
Rational Software, 1998) and decided to use that as a reference. On
reflection this methodology did work well for us, although we didn’t use
all of the phases and all of the iterations did not completely match the
guide, it did give us a good overall strategy to base out project plan
on. We prepared the initial project Gantt chart with entries to match
the RUP methodology, the initial version was a skeleton for the upcoming
project we appreciated that we would update it at the beginning of each
iteration as well, in reality, many more times in between.

With our Client away on his business trip, we struggled to know what to
do next, so we worked on a large portion of our analysis to include it
in the proposal. This was something we felt that we knew how to do and
we needed the hours, we included more than the recommended 20% analysis
in the proposal. We struggled with what many of the sections of the
proposal were all about, but each of us took sections and did our best
to produce a quality document. It took longer than we had planned
because of our uncertainty, but our fear of failure kept us working
towards its completion, our efforts were rewarded with a reasonably easy
proposal review with only a few changes to be quickly made before our
Client meeting the next day (our original proposal review had been
postponed).

On the 1<sup>st</sup> August we had our second meeting with the client,
we had hoped that Peter would sign the proposal at this meeting but he
asked for a few changes to the proposal, which was reassuring as he had
at least read it. We took this opportunity to ask the Client to
prioritise some of his desired solution features so we could create a
priority ranking matrix. We also asked him to identify any websites that
he had previously identified and discarded so that we didn’t waste time
on them, he didn’t have any. Having set tasks for the next meeting our
work load increased although we were still struggling to do enough
hours, it seemed like there was too many of us on this project, the
majority of our time was spent scanning the internet for potential SaaS
solutions. At this point our record keeping was not as good as it could
be, we often forgot to record all of our research, to date it or to add
comments that would have saved us time in the future, this is something
that improved after our first audit.

Although the Proposal was not signed on schedule, we now moved into the
first iteration of the Elaboration phase, according to the RUP
methodology there was some allowance for overlapping of iterations,
apart from the few amendments to the proposal the work planned for the
inception phase was complete. We now typed up a brief progress report
for this phase and realised that we had not prepared a risk analysis at
its onset, we decided to do this for the next phases and each iteration
of them.

## Elaboration Phase 1<sup>st</sup> Iteration (1 August – 20 August)

On reflection our initial risk analysis was very brief, we were
struggling to recognise risks for a project that wasn’t costing the
client any money and an iteration that was mainly research.

In keeping with RUP methodology we should now have been doing the bulk
of our analysis, having done so much for the proposal we were ahead of
schedule, but were aware that it contained some shortfalls. We realised
that we did not fully comprehend the physical size or the behind the
scenes workflow of Copy Express, we requested a tour of the print shop
and Peter agreed to include it in our next meeting.

On the 8<sup>th</sup> of August we had our third client meeting with
Copy Express. With the amendments made to the proposal Peter McCarroll
signed it as required for our first milestone, and the official
completion of the Inception phase. As promised Peter gave us a
comprehensive tour with explanations of his print shop and processes; in
hindsight we should have done this at the first or at latest second
meeting as it put the business problem in perspective for us, we
suddenly realised that this was a small business looking for an
economical way to gain growth, to consider expensive options would not
be a strategic move for Copy Express. We now understood Peter’s price
requirement and could visualise their work processes and machinery.

For this meeting we had aimed for each of us to suggest three solutions
and briefly talk about them to get a feel for what Peter likes; the
reality was that we provided information and screenshots (one each-
EditandPrint (editandprint webtoprint with a twist, 2013), ePrint
(Hexicom Software Pty Limited, 2013) and Zetaprints (ZetaPrints Ltd,
2006-2012) of our favoured options and talked about others that we had
seen but thought were too expensive or hadn’t heard back from yet. We
displayed these in the format of a comparison chart with the relevant
features and prices indicated. This visual representation of all of the
web solutions we had found worked well, Peter was quickly able to see
how many we had found and talk about any he had heard of or thought he
knew would be too expensive. He questioned why we had overlooked
OnPrintShop (Radixweb, 2013) (the finally recommended solution) and we
commented that it was Indian based and we had concluded would be
difficult to deal with, of course we were later to find out that this
was actually the most helpful supplier we came across.

This was the point in time that we realised we needed to develop some
legitimate test cases and a way of ensuring we would be consistently
evaluating and testing our chosen websites. In keeping with the RUP
methodology we were able to use the Use Cases from our event tables, we
added to these, wrote up full use case descriptions and gave them a
ranking using the priority chart filled out by Peter on the
1<sup>st</sup> August (saved as *Use Case Priority Ranking* chart). We
created a *Potential Solution Evaluation Results* template to record the
test results as well as a *General Requirements Criteria* chart to
compare the three solutions being presented and as an afterthought we
used *the Proposed Requirement and Functionality* list from the proposal
to indicate any lacking requirements that may have been missed in the
testing. These three templates worked well although there was some
uncertainty that the scores on the *Potential Solution Evaluation
Results* were comparable in the first round. This was because of
variations of the interpretation of the Use Cases by each team member as
well as the interpretation of how to score them when an actual demo site
was not provided.

Ideally one person could have filled out all the results for all of the
sites tested (or all of us do all of them), but we didn’t do this. We
had discussed in our team meetings the approach we would take but only
later realised that we should have prepared a formal test plan rather
than a verbal one. This was done in the 2<sup>nd</sup> Elaboration
Iteration, a bit later that ideal. It records the method we used and we
signed it to acknowledge its importance. The templates were updated at a
later date but were reused in both of the following iterations.

On the 13<sup>th</sup> of August we had our first Advisor Meeting with
our team advisor (Steve McKinlay) and we took the opportunity to discuss
our concerns about the need for 32 hours a week and our lack of having
enough to do to fulfil those hours, looking back of course there is many
things we could have spent more time on if only we had realised what
they were or how to approach them at the time e.g. better test plan
write up, better risk analysis and weekly summaries etc. We were
relieved that Steve agreed that the RUP Methodology was a suitable
choice for our project.

We had participated in an online Webinar Demonstration for ePrint and
given access to their demonstration Management Information System and a
linked storefront. This was the first real software trial we gained
access to and it provided real insight to what was available. This meant
that testing was more extensive for this site than the other sites
presented to Copy Express on the 20<sup>th</sup>.

On the 20<sup>th</sup> August we had a Client Meeting, this meeting was
stressful before it even started, the team had left too much to the last
minute\! 15 minutes before the meeting we were printing out documents, a
valuable lesson was learned and we never cut it that fine again. This
meeting also highlighted the teams nervousness at representing Copy
Express to suppliers, Peter urged us to openly use his name and website
to gain access to the required information and to take the extra step of
approaching suppliers by email or phone rather than just reading the
webpages which some of us had not felt confident to do beforehand.

This meeting also started to highlight that the Client was prepared to
forgo quite a few requirements in order to gain an excellent online
editor (nicer customer experience) and a good price. ePrint had an
extensive MIS but lacked the online editing and linked templates and
Fotolia (Fotolia, 2004 - 2013) library of EditandPrint.

The feedback from the client concerning two of our Use Cases being
wrongly defined prompted us to apply some change control; we were almost
relieved that we would have the opportunity to demonstrate we understood
this process.

Peter signed off the demonstration and this minor milestone signified
the end of this iteration.

## Elaboration Phase 2<sup>nd</sup> Iteration (21 August – 30 August)

The Client meeting spurred us on and we actively started to request
webinar demonstrations or access to demo sights. We discovered that
OnPrintShop was the mother company of the Australian EditandPrint
company that we had been working on earlier, we also discovered in a
webinar that EditandPrint was designed to pick up orders that would be
sent to a Queensland Printing Company for further processing rather than
printing the work yourself; this was unsuitable for Copy Express.

We made contact with OnPrintShop, watched a Webinar Demonstration and
gained access to their demo sites. Having a mixed background
(cultural/ethnic) team members gave us an advantage dealing with this
Indian based company we were able to overcome any language barriers that
we may have otherwise struggled with.

Having abandoned EditandPrint Chesda spent some time loading ZetaPrints
onto his personal website to assess its value as a free install pay per
order option.

Each team member prepared a presentation on their chosen web solution;
we only had to update our previous ePrint one which worked out well as
it left one of us free to attend to more Project Management duties which
was good as an Audit was looming and we wanted to make a good first
impression. Meanwhile we were still following up on any new or
outstanding SaaS potential solutions.

Our first Audit was on the 21<sup>st</sup> of August; as expected we had
the following improvements to apply;

  - The minutes were good but should match the headings (structure) to
    the agenda; explicitly list the matters arising from the previous
    minutes with the date and person in the next agenda.

  - Use a template for the weekly progress reports rather than the
    running commentary we had been using - we had been under the
    impression that the templates were optional, but were happy to
    change our approach. When showing Robert our team minutes he said we
    didn’t need to document them so formally (in the running commentary)
    but we continued to do so as we didn’t have this in writing.

  - We needed to catch up on our hours and check our motivation.

  - Add dates to our research work.

  - The separation of emails was good

  - Need to apply version Control and have supporting documentation of
    our method, no need to back date anything.

  - Only one person (Helen) to create the backups of the electronic
    records

We took on board all of the above and continued them throughout the
project.

On the 30<sup>th</sup> of August we had our 4<sup>th</sup> client
meeting where we represented ePrint, ZetaPrints and EditandPrint with
our updated materials and introduced OnPrintShop to client. At this
meeting the options were narrowed down to OnPrintShop and possibly
ePrint. The client asked us to carry out further testing on both
OnPrintShop and ePrint and to present a full demo to himself and his
designer at the next meeting, he expressed that if ePrint couldn’t
supply the editable template demo in time then we may need to leave that
option and concentrate on OnPrintShop. The client asked us to
investigate the use of Magento (an open source editing tool that is
combined with Zetaprints) to see if it could be used on its own. He also
approved the change control documents to update Use Cases 33 and 34 from
the proposal and re-label them as 33a and 34a.

## Elaboration Phase 3<sup>rd</sup> Iteration (31 August to 10 September)

In the team meeting we discussed our concerns about doing a live demo on
behalf of the provider as opposed to the trained salesman because we
felt that they would do a better job than us; we were being pushed out
of our comfort zone but we knew we would reluctantly have to do our
best.

We decided to look at using Testlink to record our test results of the
websites we have tested and Chesda offered to install the software on
his website. After loading some test cases on the site we realized that
the test case steps would be different for each website and that
Testlink was not going to add the value to our final reports that we had
hoped.

We had a webinar with B2C print but thought they were not worth pursing
because it was too expensive.

We conducted a phone interview with one of the original ePrint customers
in Perth to determine the value that a similar print company to our
clients had gained from subscribing to them; this gave us some valuable
insights to its strengths and limitations. We were able to report these
back to the client at the next meeting.

We created 3 scenarios to use for the live demonstration of ePrint and
OnPrintShop; we practiced running through them and created documents
with screenshots of the steps taken to do each scenario; these were
later left for the client’s reference. We also created some walkthrough
videos testing both ePrint and OnPrintShop in case the internet is too
slow at the clients meeting.

Having learnt the need for good preparation at earlier client meetings
we agreed to spend a few days before the meeting going through the demos
and critiquing each other’s work. This was a case of the best plans
going awry\! The first day we arrived at WelTec we could not find a free
computer or even get our laptops to connect, it was a busy day at the
campus, so we agreed to meet the next morning before the meeting, we
arrived in plenty of time and secured three Library computers, we
thought we were set\! Unfortunately OnPrintShop had updated their demo
site overnight and added features that were not there the day before,
when trying to step through the Scenarios the WelTec library internet
was so slow that it became ridiculous\! We headed for the Client meeting
knowing that at least we had practiced at home and we had the
screenshots and demo videos.

We were expecting to connect to the internet and use our laptops to
demonstrate the web solutions. However the Client wanted us to use his
projector and keyboard. This was unfortunate, the screen resolution was
low which meant we could not see the entire web page, we had to
constantly scroll to find buttons and links that seemed to have
disappeared; it was very off putting\! We had trouble with his mouse on
his meeting table and issues with his out of date Internet Explorer. We
could see the frustration on the clients face and we felt embarrassed
and annoyed, it was a lesson in checking the available technology well
before a live demonstration. On reflection we should have taken the
initiative and insisted on changing to our laptops, but we didn’t have
the confidence to do this. This meeting was probably the lowest point of
the project.

## 

## Elaboration 4<sup>th</sup> Iteration (11 September – 8 October)

As the project entered into fourth Iteration we started to feel weary
from the work pressure and at the same time we were bit disappointed
that the project had not progressed as we had initially planned.

Our second audit was on the 12<sup>th</sup> of September, and we had the
following improvements to apply:

  - Write up a progress report for each week. The weekly summary
    template we had been using since the first audit was not the one he
    wanted us to use.

  - We were still 1/4 weeks behind with our hours. There are some issues
    with forward planning

  - We all needed to write what we have learnt on the day in their
    personal diaries.

We mentioned to the Auditor (Robert) that the client had been busy and
that he had not replied to our email to arrange a meeting and Robert
suggested that we spend time trying to solve the problems with the
proposed systems, we took this suggestion on board.

While we were waiting for client’s decision about which Web to Print
solution he wanted to go with, we utilised the time by looking at BPMN
(Business Process Model and Notation) and its potential use in the
project. We researched whether the BPMN technique could be applied to
the project, if it could then where, when and how we could apply this
technique? We decided that it is not applicable to the project at this
time, but it was interesting to see another approach similar to UML.

In this iteration good amount of time was spent on researching any
further possible solutions apart from what we have already looked at.
The client was not fully in favour of any one solution at the moment.
The OnPrintShop solution provides good store front fulfilling majority
of front end requirements but was not fully satisfying their backend
workflow management, whereas ePrint’s front end was not that robust but
their backend workflow management was excellent. The client had
expressed that he liked the store front from OnPrintShop and the
workflow management from ePrint. This prompted the team to have one
final round of research for any potential solution where we can find
both storefront and backend workflow management and fulfils most of the
key requirements.

We had also turned our focus to finding ways and techniques to provide
solutions to compensate what OnPrintShop Platinum Pro solution was not
able to provide. We started to look at uploading invoices into Xero
Accounting system (Xero, 2013), better work flow management at the
backend and auto email responders, batch processing of invoices into
Xero. If we could find solutions to these requirements then there was a
strong possibility that OnPrintShop could be the final solution for Copy
Express.

We researched hoping to find possible ways to incorporate MailChimp (The
Rocket Science Group, 2001-2013) or similar type of auto responders
where client can send auto reminder for reorders, which is lacking in
OnPrintShop. There was monthly payment option with MailChimp that would
allow the use of Auto Responders, which we later found out the client
paid anyway\! He had never mentioned it and we had failed to ask.

Along with MailChimp research we researched Xero API to get an
understanding of what an API does and how we could integrate or export
the invoices downloaded from OnPrintShop into the Xero accounting
system.

We were able to successfully develop a macro prototype which can
successfully extract invoices from the OnPrintShop CSV download and
create an invoice suitable to upload to Xero. This was a success for the
team as well as an advantage for Copy Express in relation to cost and
time. Necessary user documentation was also prepared to support the
development and for future reference.

Through our research we came to a conclusion that there are no open
sources or cost free Management Information Systems that were suitable
for integration with OnPrintShop and the client might need to rethink
about cost effect on the budget, if he decides to pursue this further.

We pretty much knew that the solutions we found in the previous
iterations were the best available solutions in the market compared to
Copy Express requirements. As we continued our research we identified
W3P (printing.com & w3p Limited, 2013) could be another possible
solution. But it had some draw backs like cost, and it is a large UK
company not serving pacific region until later this year. But it
certainly has got good front end and backend features. The team spent
some time testing this solution and prepared a demo video of W3P and a
PowerPoint presentation to present to client..

We received further communication from OnPrintShop about their new
developments and upgrades. The major development was better work flow
automation at the backend where jobs folders were downloaded and sent to
hot folders directly for printing purpose. Earlier this had to be done
manually. This process will eventually save lot of time, increasing
efficiency by reducing human errors. Since this is an add-on feature it
came at an additional cost of another $1000USD, on top of earlier
mentioned price. The team decided to present/inform this new development
to client in our next meeting.

In this client meeting (1<sup>st</sup> August), we presented our
feedback from OnPrintShop latest developments, a quick run through of
research results of MailChimp reminders and Auto responders and Xero API
integration of CSV files. We also presented W3P which he confirmed our
thoughts that it was too expensive; but we felt had been worth showing
him what was soon going to be locally available. So a final decision was
made by the client and he advised the team to concentrate on
OnPrintShop.

We were also advised that we need to look into Copy Express pricing
method which was provided to us earlier and work out how we can set up
various pricing options for various products. We spent the next week
looking at the pricing chart and how to apply it to the OnPrintShop
demonstration sites and refining the Xero CSV integration macro
prototypes. On the 8<sup>th</sup> October we presented these to the
client and discussed our findings for the pricing. We realised at this
meeting that we had not put enough effort into the pricing, we had miss
understood the depth of the clients requirement and had found his
pricing schedule quite confusing. We offered to spend a week with the
whole team working on it and he seemed satisfied with this offer, the
client took the opportunity to explain in more depth what his concerns
were and we felt better prepared.

With only one task left to complete we decided that the project could
progress into transition, there was not going to be a construction
phase.

## Transition Phase (9 October – 22 October)

For the next couple of days we worked hard trying to understand Copy
Express pricing system. We created products and set up prices and tested
the prices set up by other team members on the OnPrintShop demo sites.

This was very crucial phase in the life of project as well as for the
team members as we were coming closer to the end of the project and we
needed to prepare ourselves for the project handover and close out. We
were under pressure to prepare necessary documentation for the project
closing and we were feeling stressed out too. Taking support, motivation
and encouragement from each other at this time worked well.

We were working hard counting on each the dropbox and emailing continued
to work well for us. We had scheduled our final meeting with client for
one week after the last one so we had limited time.

The final Client meeting was on the 15<sup>th</sup> October, we were
well prepared and felt happy with the work we had done. We gave a
PowerPoint presentation to highlight strengths and weaknesses of the
OnPrintShop SaaS, we discussed what would and not work with the Copy
Express pricing schedule and we addressed any outstanding queries from
the previous meetings. Again we had prepared a visual representation of
what the various pricing options had to offer and this seemed to work
well, the client got a clear understanding where his money would be
spent. We closed off the meeting by officially handing over our prepared
Recommendation report and a WelTec USB stick with the previously agreed
electronic versions of the reported SaaS research and Xero CSV macro
prototypes with user documentation.

The team and the client thanked each other and we were asked about our
experience and how we felt the project had gone, we all gave positive
feedback; it was a nice way to complete the process.

With this milestone achieved we all felt relieved of some pressure but
quickly moved on to start preparing ourselves for academic hand in.

As the project is coming to close we are all working together to produce
a team report which will reflect our work through the life of this
project. As a team we discussed and decided that we are all take couple
of phases each to write about what exactly happened at this time.

Apart from this we are also working hard to produce our individual
reports focusing on how “I” started this project, how “I” progressed
through, how “I” finished, what sort of problems “I” faced and how I
solved those problems.

# Statistical analysis of hours worked

<span class="chart">\[CHART\]</span>

This project did not supply enough work to require the full 32 hours per
week recommended, the total hours worked (1272.06 hours) was 71.94 hours
short of the recommended 1344 hours, **5 % down on planned time.**

<span class="chart">\[CHART\]</span>

# Milestone Summary

<table>
<thead>
<tr class="header">
<th><strong>Proposed Milestone</strong></th>
<th><strong>Proposed Date</strong></th>
<th><strong>Actual Milestone</strong></th>
<th><strong>Actual Date</strong></th>
<th><strong>Change Control Applied?</strong></th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Proposal sign-off</td>
<td>1 Aug 13</td>
<td>Proposal sign-off</td>
<td>8 Aug 13</td>
<td><strong>*</strong>No</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Component Test Report (1<sup>st</sup> Iteration) including</p>
<p>Iteration completion and risk acceptance sign-off</p></td>
<td>19 Aug 13</td>
<td>Presentation of three possible SaaS options with test results</td>
<td>20 Aug 13</td>
<td>Yes<br />
#4</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Analysis Documentation (Academic requirement)</td>
<td>29 Aug 13</td>
<td>Yes<br />
#3</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td><p>Component Test Report (2<sup>st</sup> Iteration) including</p>
<p>Iteration completion and risk acceptance sign-off</p></td>
<td>4 Sep 13</td>
<td>Test Evaluation Progress Reports and Presentations</td>
<td>30 Aug 13</td>
<td>Yes<br />
#5</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>Proposed Integrated system recommendation</td>
<td>23 Sep 13</td>
<td>Web Solution Walk through and Demo Presentation</td>
<td>9 Sep 13</td>
<td>Yes<br />
#6</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Proposed Integrated system report and signoff</td>
<td>8 Oct 13</td>
<td>CSV Integration Prototype Demonstration</td>
<td>8 Oct 13<br />
(Signed on the 15<sup>th</sup>)</td>
<td>Yes<br />
#8</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>System Documentation Handover</td>
<td>24 Oct 13</td>
<td>Project Completion and Handover</td>
<td>15 Oct 13</td>
<td>Yes<br />
#9</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>Final System Sign Off</td>
<td>24 Oct 13</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Yes<br />
#9</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>-</td>
<td>-</td>
<td>Academic Handover</td>
<td>22 Oct 13</td>
<td>Yes<br />
#10</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**\***Presented to Client on 1<sup>st</sup> August, minor amendments
made and signed on the 8<sup>th</sup>.

The Project Proposal included milestones taken from the RUP guidelines,
it soon became apparent that this was more of a research and reporting
project, there would not be a construction phase and to ask for risk
acceptance from a student team was not realistic. Change control was
applied and the Milestones were redefined as listed in the next section.

# Change Control Summary

| **\#** | **Date**  | **Title**                                                                        | **Description**                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| ------ | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1      | 21 Aug 13 | **Redefine Use Case 33**                                                         | Rework the Use Case description to better meet the Requirements of Copy Express and ensure better testing of web solutions in upcoming iterations.                                                                                    |
| 2      | 21 Aug 13 | **Redefine Use Case 34**                                                         | Rework the Use Case description to better meet the Requirements of Copy Express and ensure better testing of web solutions in upcoming iterations.                                                                                    |
| 3      | 23 Aug 13 | **Add an analysis document milestone**                                           | Add the required milestone (Analysis Documentation) to the project Plan and produce the required document for our advisor to sign off.                                                                                                |
| 4      | 23 Aug 13 | **Redefine second proposed milestone**                                           | Reword the milestone listed in the proposal, from “Component Test Report (1<sup>st</sup> Iteration) including Iteration completion and risk acceptance sign-off”, to “Presentation of three possible SaaS options with test results”. |
| 5      | 29 Aug 13 | **Redefine the third milestone of the proposal, (now to be the 4<sup>th</sup>)** | Reword the milestone listed in the proposal, from “Component Test Report (2<sup>st</sup> Iteration) including Iteration completion and risk acceptance sign-off”, to “Test Evaluation Progress Reports and Presentations”.            |
| 6      | 02 Sep 13 | **Iteration redefinition**                                                       | Rename the current iteration of the project plan from Construction Phase Iteration 1 to Elaboration phase Iteration 3 and add a *Web Solution Walk through Demo Presentation* milestone to the end of the iteration.                  |
| 7      | 12 Sep 13 | **Iteration redefinition**                                                       | Rename the current iteration of the project plan from Construction Phase Iteration 1 to Elaboration phase Iteration 4 and add a milestone to the end of the iteration.                                                                |
| 8      | 9 Oct 13  | Milestone Redefinition                                                           | Delete the Proposed Integrated system recommendation milestone and redefine the Proposed Integrated system report and signoff milestone to CSV Integration Prototype Demonstration.                                                   |
| 9      | 9 Oct 13  | Milestone Redefinitions                                                          | Delete the *Final System Signoff* milestone and redefine the *System Documentation Handover milestone* to *Project Completion and Handover*, alter the proposed date from 24 October 2013 to 15 October 2013.                         |
| 10     | 16 Oct 13 | **Add Academic Milestone**                                                       | To formally add an academic handover Milestone to close off the transition phase and signify the completion of the project, as shown on the project plan as “WelTec Document Submission”                                              |

# Summary of successes

**What worked well for us;**

  - Drop Box, collaborative file sharing.

  - Good requirements analysis.

  - Good motivation between team members.

  - Complimentary team skills.

  - Able to recognise team member’s strengths and weaknesses effectively
    and allocate work appropriately.

<!-- end list -->

  - > Milestones sign off.

  - > Able to recommend potential SaaS solution.

  - > Two Macro prototypes for uploading invoices into Xero accounting.

  - > Final Recommendation Report Submission.

  - > Submission of other SaaS research documents.

  - > Good research techniques.

  - > Regular team meetings.

  - > Good agenda preparation and recording of minutes.

  - > Good team dynamics.

  - > Applied change control to ensure milestones were appropriate to
    > scope change,

# Summary of failures

**What didn’t work well for us;**

  - > Last minute preparation of presentations, not enough joint team
    > preparation.

<!-- end list -->

  - Live demonstration didn’t go quite well because of lack of good
    technical assessment and testing beforehand.

  - Test link; time spent to no benefit to the project.

  - No signed a Team Contract.

  - Very little test planning of the prototypes or the Price testing.

  - Time spent researching for a free MIS without any success.

  - Time spent researching Business Process Model and Notation with no
    benefit to the project.

  - The project did not progress as first anticipated (no construction
    stage)

  - The research done was duplicated by team members, possibly could
    have been a two person project.

# Summary of Lessons learned

  - Real world learning of Xero, MailChimp, API’s as well as business
    processes and prioritisation.

  - Importance of version and change control.

  - How to apply risk analysis and risk mitigation strategies to a
    project.

  - How to apply some Project Management strategies (scheduling, summary
    reports, record keeping)

  - Importance of good research recording.

  - Importance of a solid test plan and full understanding of it by all
    testers.

  - The advantages of using a well written agenda with the matters
    arising from previous meetings listed

  - Resolving issues within the team amicably.

  - How important team work is, how to balance strengths and weaknesses
    and make the team work productive.

  - How to apply an adaptive agile methodology such as the RUP.

# Conclusion

The Web to Print team were able to work through a process of finding,
testing and eliminating many available Software as a Service potential
solutions that were specifically designed for the print industry.

Throughout the process the WelTec student team experienced both failures
and successes, all of which contributed to a considerable learning
experience for each of them, an experience they will never forget.

Although the scope of the project was less than originally anticipated
the team were able to recommend the OnPrintShop Web to Print service
(Radixweb, 2013) and to provide a small prototype program that can be
adapted to the final product to provide automation of the conversion of
the downloaded CSV Job details to a suitable template to upload into
Xero.

If Copy Express Ltd engage the services of the OnPrintShop SaaS solution
they will have taken a step that very few other local printers have,
they will have demonstrated innovation that will set them apart from
their competitors. By choosing an affordable option with very good
storefront features (fully editable templates and online image gallery)
they will have mitigated the financial risk for themselves and maximised
the customer experience thus greatly increasing likelihood of success.

# Reference List

Rational Software. (1998). RUP Best Practices for Software Development
Teams. Cupertino, California, USA.*editandprint webtoprint with a
twist*. (2013). Retrieved October 2013, from editandprint:
http://www.editandprint.com.au/*Your stuff, anywhere*. (2013). Retrieved
October 2013, from dropbox.com: www.dropbox.comCopy Express Ltd. ( 2012
- 2013 ). *Printing Solutions Wellington*. Retrieved October 2013, from
Copy Express Ltd: http://www.copyexpress.co.nzFotolia. (2004 - 2013).
*Royalty Free Stock Photos*. Retrieved October 2013, from fotolia:
http://us.fotolia.com/Hexicom Software Pty Limited. (2013). *eprint
software - Welcome*. Retrieved October 2013, from eprint software:
http://eprintsoftware.com/printing.com & w3p Limited. ( 2013). *Online
Web to Print | W3P*. Retrieved October 2013, from W3P:
http://www.w3p.com/uk/Radixweb. (2013). *OnPrintShop Web-to-Print
Storefront*. Retrieved October 2013, from OnPrintShop.com:
http://www.onprintshop.com/The Rocket Science Group. (2001-2013). *Send
Better Email*. Retrieved October 2013, from MailChimp.com:
http://mailchimp.com/Xero. (2013). *Xero - Beautiful accounting
software*. Retrieved October 2013, from Xero.com:
http://www.xero.com/nz/ZetaPrints Ltd. (2006-2012). *Web-to-print and
dynamic imaging*. Retrieved October 2013, from zetaprints.com:
http://www.zetaprints.com/
